#LATCH INSTALLATION GUIDE FOR UBUNTU


##PREREQUISITES
* Ubuntu version 10 or later.

* Python

* Libraries: (libpam-dev, libcurl-dev, libssl-dev).
```
sudo apt-get install libpam-dev libcurl-dev libssl-dev
```

* tkinter library installed if GUI is used (optional). 

```
sudo apt-get install python-tk
```


* To get the **"Application ID"** and **"Secret"**, (fundamental values for integrating Latch in any application), it’s necessary to register a developer account in [Latch's website](https://latch.elevenpaths.com"https://latch.elevenpaths.com"). On the upper right side, click on **"Developer area"**.

 
##DOWNLOADING THE UBUNTU PLUGIN
* When the account is activated, the user will be able to create applications with Latch and access to developer documentation, including existing SDKs and plugins. The user has to access again to [Developer area](https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/developerArea"https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/developerArea"), and browse his applications from **"My applications"** section in the side menu.

* When creating an application, two fundamental fields are shown: **"Application ID"** and **"Secret"**, keep these for later use. There are some additional parameters to be chosen, as the application icon (that will be shown in Latch) and whether the application will support OTP  (One Time Password) or not. For Ubuntu the OTP must be disabled.

* From the side menu in developers area, the user can access the **"Documentation & SDKs"** section. Inside it, there is a **"SDKs and Plugins"** menu. Links to different SDKs in different programming languages and plugins developed so far, are shown.


##INSTALLING THE PLUGIN IN UBUNTU
* Go to **"python"** directory in plugin package, open and edit **"latch-model.conf"** file. Add **"Application ID"** and **"Secret"** data, generated before and save it in the same directory as **"latch.conf"**.

* cd to the top-level directory of the plugin, and use the command to install it:
```
sudo ./install
```

##UNINSTALLING THE PLUGIN IN UBUNTU
* Open a terminal. Go to **"python"** directory inside plugin's directory. Run:
```
sudo python uninstall.py
```


##USE OF LATCH MODULE FOR THE USERS
**Latch does not affect in any case or in any way the usual operations with an account. It just allows or denies actions over it, acting as an independent extra layer of security that, once removed or without effect, will have no effect over the accounts, which will remain with their original state.**

###Pair a Ubuntu server user
The user needs the Latch application installed on the phone, and follow these steps:

* **Step 1:** There are two options:
    * Option A. Pairing with command line: Just open a console and execute **“pairSYS + TOKEN GENERATED BY LATCH”**. 
    * Option B. Pairing with GUI: In a console, execute **“latchSYS”**. A new windows will appear. Pressing on **“Pair”**, a new window will appear, where the user may introduce the token generated by the mobile app.   

* **Step 2:** From the Latch app on the phone, the user has to generate the token, pressing on **“Add a new service"** at the bottom of the application, and pressing **"Generate new code"** will take the user to a new screen where the pairing code will be displayed.

* **Step 3:** The user has to type the characters generated on the phone into the text box. Click on **"OK"** button.

* **Step 4:** Now the user may lock and unlock the account, preventing any unauthorized access.

###Unpair a Ubuntu server user
* Just like pairing operation, unpairing may be achieved in two ways: command line and GUI. Finally, an alert indicating that the service has been unpaired will be displayed.

####Unpairing with command line
* Just open a console and execute “**unpairSYS**”.

####Unpairing with GUI
* Open a console and execute “**latchSYS**” command. A new window will open with “**Unpair**” option. Once pressed, a confirmation message will pop up, indicating unpairing was successful.



##RESOURCES
- You can access Latch´s use and installation manuals, together with a list of all available plugins here: [https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/developers/resources](https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/developers/resources)

- Further information on de Latch´s API can be found here: [https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/developers/doc_api](https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/developers/doc_api)

- For more information about how to use Latch and testing more free features, please refer to the user guide in Spanish and English:
	1. [English version](https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/public/documents/howToUseLatchNevele_EN.pdf)
	1. [Spanish version](https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/public/documents/howToUseLatchNevele_ES.pdf)